1. What data types do each of these values represent?
  1. "A Clockwork Orange" - string
  2. 42 -integer
  3. 09/02/1945 - date
  4. 98.7 - float
  5. $15.99 - numeric value

2. Explain in your own words when a database might be used. Explain when a text file might be used.
  A database might be used for an application or program that has tables of information that will
  be queried or may need updating. A text file is good for a singular / simple, perhaps verbose,
  work that may not need referencing. Furthermore, a text file is human readable whereas a database
  is not.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages?
  SQL is a database specific language that has the ability to query and manipulate data within
  a database. SQL is also a declarative language meaning you describe the result and you get it
  back via a black box.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level?
  Database systems are put together in a table structure. Columns are the very define what data
  is being represented, rows are mini descriptions of the data, and at the intersection of a
  column and row are cells or individual pieces of data.

5.Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
  table- entire representation of a single database
  row- complete conceptual unit within a table
  column- defines what the data represents
  value- some piece of info that the column name describes

6. List 3 data types that can be used in a table.
  -string
  -date
  -numeric value

7.
SELECT date, amount
FROM payments;

This would return the date and amounts from the payments table.

SELECT amount
FROM payments
WHERE amount > 500;

This would return all amounts greater than 500 from the payments table.

SELECT *
FROM payments
WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

This would return the information from all columns for the set of rows where the payee is Mega Foods
within the payments table.

8. users
id  name            email                         signup
1 Aleesia Algorithm aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu      2014-10-24
2 DeAndre Data      datad@comcast.net             2008-01-20
3 Chris Collection  chris.collection@outlook.com  2012-01-20
4 Brandy Boolean    bboolean@nasa.gov             1999-10-15

  a) The e-mail and signup date for the user named DeAndre Data.
    SELECT email, signup
    FROM users
    WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

  b) The user ID for the user with e-mail 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
    SELECT id
    FROM users
    WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';
  c) All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
    SELECT *
    FROM users
    WHERE id = 4;
